---
layout: post
title:  "New site!"
date:   2016-10-10 22:47:00 +0100
categories: general
---
I decided it's about time I got a personal site back up again. Woo!

Crucial to this: realizing that while I _could_ have spent quite a long time messing around with site software, themes, hosting, etc... it would have been a) tedious, b) not what I actually _wanted_ to spend my time doing, and c) unnecessary.

It is, of course, all about the content. The reason I've actually put a site up again is because I want to write - not futz with blog software. I can always futz with blog software later if I want to; and I probably *will*, when the mood takes me, but I'll wait until that happens. It's a nice little example of realizing that I was making assumptions that were making everything more difficult, and by focusing on what I actually wanted to achieve, I could just DOWIT.

It's also interesting because I think it reveals mistaken ideas about the price of failure. The underlying theme of front-loading all that setup, the idea that motivates all of it, is that I needed to be careful to get it right. I needed to pick the right hosting setup, the right blog platform, the right theme, etc. Because if I didn't, I was afraid I'd find myself locked-in to a suboptimal setup somehow. But this is both overestimating how important it is that my setup is optimal - it's just a personal site, it's not a critical business application - and underestimating my ability to fix it. I might not know how to migrate from Jekyll to Wordpress today, but if someday I decide that's what I want to do, I'm sure I can figure it out.

For a while it was just a pretense, of course: futzing with the setup in order to procrastinate doing any actual writing, because if I actually tried to write, I'd face bigger problems like "I don't know what to say." Well, for someone who doesn't know what to say, I'm at five paragraphs and counting... _that_ mistake, I think, is down to being worried about how the result will come out. Which I think makes it worse. Do I _want_ my writing to be deep, useful, interesting, etc? Sure, but if I focus on that, I'll keep killing things that might _become_ deep, useful, or interesting, before they have the chance to get that far. I mean, I didn't intend to write five paragraphs when I started on this, but look where we've ended up.

And if the result is tedious, self-indulgent, pointless, etc... well, you have an entire internets in front of you. See you around maybe.

So. Github Pages for hosting, Jekyll for site generation, Atom for editing MD files locally. Worry about the rest later, if I ever even need to. Easy peasy.
