---
layout: post
title:  "Craft Burger"
date:   2016-10-11 14:00:00 +0100
categories: food
---
A new burger place officially opened near me in Oxford today (after a couple of nights of soft launch). They don't seem to have a website yet, but [they're on Twitter](https://twitter.com/CraftBurgerOx). I went there for lunch to try them out.

My expectations, going in: a place called 'Craft Burger' is immediately drawing on associations with 'craft beer,' and I think that whole sphere - while there is _some_ innovation going on there - cares more about who the producers are than what they are actually producing. It's the culinary equivalent of indie bands - being small, independent, local, passionate, etc is more important than whether what you do is actually any _good_ (at least up to a point). Obligatory  [Portlandia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ErRHJlE4PGI) clip. And that doesn't mean they _can't_ be good - it's possible to create great stuff and _also_ be small, independent, local, passionate, etc. It just means that the focus is elsewhere. So, to sum up: what I expected was a good burger, but nothing amazing, new, or different; on-trend with e.g. a brioche bun; and a certain amount of pushing their indie status.

First impression judging from the menu: man, it's expensive! Pretty much all the burgers are £10 or more. Though it _does_ include fries. My avocado bacon burger with fries was £12. For comparison: GBK does an avocado bacon burger for £9.55 plus £1.85 for a small fries (which I think is comparable), so 60p cheaper; while a chain gastropub like The Britannia does a bacon cheeseburger with fries for £8.29. So I guess it's pretty in line with 'gourmet' burger places, if a little pricier than the big chains.

The staff were friendly and seated me immediately (not difficult, the place wasn't very busy, it being Tuesday 12:30pm and them having only been open for half an hour). I sat quite near the front, and faced outwards, which in retrospect was a mistake - it would have been more interesting to sit facing inwards and look around more, but nevermind. Facing the big lit front window did make the place all feel a little darker/gloomier, just by contrast; they might benefit from putting up some kind of shade in the window so that the lighting they've got inside the place isn't drowned out when you're facing that direction.

Drinks to start: they have a set of milkshakes (vanilla, chocolate, strawberry, peanut butter, and oreo) but I also noticed behind the bar that they had banana milkshake listed as a special, so I went for that. It was pretty good! Like most places serving milkshakes these days, it came in a big metal shaker thing - I've seen it suggested that it helps the milkshake stay colder for longer, which is interesting if true - and it had a clear banana flavour, little bits of banana in it but pretty smooth overall.

It reminded me of two things: one, I've still not experimented with my new container of amylaze, which I was planning to use to make banana juice, so maybe I should use it to make banana milkshakes and see how they compare; and two, a milkshake that thick is pretty hard to drink through a regular-sized straw, and I wonder how using a thicker/wider straw would change the experience - I think it would make it easier to drink, but it could also change the air/liquid balance and so have consequences for mouthfeel etc.

Food: I went for the aforementioned avocado bacon burger, with their regular 'rosemary' fries, and a side of mac-and-cheese. A couple of bites into the burger and I realized that they'd forgotten the avocado! One of the staff brought me some in a pot, explaining that nobody had actually ordered it before, so this was the first avocado bacon burger the kitchen had ever made - which was funny, but still, it's a pretty silly mistake.

Quality-wise, the burger was... well, it was perfectly decent, but it's not clear to me that it was worth the extra cost. You can't just slap a pretty normal burger into a brioche bun and jack the price up, y'know? Well, I guess you _can_, and that's what a lot of people who care about being on-trend are willing to pay for... but I don't see the value. Maybe I just don't appreciate the other things they put into that burger to make it great, but they weren't obvious to me. Oh, though I did notice that the burger was small enough that I could actually pick it up and eat it with my hands, instead of needing to use a knife and fork, and that's something I appreciate compared to other 'gourmet' burger places. (It got a little more difficult after I added the missing avocado, but it was still possible).

Meanwhile, the fries were good - thin, crispy, soft in the center, all the things you want a fry to be really - but the mac and cheese was more like "mac in white sauce with cheese on top" - more peppery than cheesy once you got into it. I guess it's a roux-and-milk based sauce with some grated cheese mixed in, and I've been spoiled by my sodium-citrate 'megacheese' concoctions.

Overall, I think it broadly met my expectations. They actually _didn't_ stress the indie/craft nature particularly - I was expecting writing on the walls or tables about where they get their meat from etc, and I didn't spot any of that. I think I'll give them a few weeks to get into a rhythm, and then go back - like I said, the food was good, it wasn't mindblowing but I don't _need_ to have my mind blown every single meal. In particular I'm interested to see what their chicken burgers are like.
